Add doc page for joint compression (#2316)
apple/coremltools: docs-guides/source/opt-joint-compression.md

which may be beneficial to get even more disk savings and latency improvements. 

We first start by looking at how to take an uncompressed `mlpackage` 
and get a joint compressed model by using the `ct.optimize.coreml.*` APIs. 
As discussed in previous sections as well, this approach may or 
may not yield a highly accurate model in some cases, however, 
this is the best way to get the model in the desired format to test 
out the expected disk size savings and  performance  (latency, runtime memory etc). 
And once a model is obtained with desired performance characteristics, 
a better accuracy model can be generated by applying the various data 
based optimization methods available in `ct.optimize.torch.*`. 
The latter is discussed via a few API code snippets in the section below. 

## Combining compression types on an mlpackage 

### Joint palettization and quantization 

This means using a Look up table (LUT) whose values are of the 
dtype INT8/UINT8 instead of Float16 which is the default. 
This could be beneficial when combined with INT8 activations in
speeding up inference. e.g. you could take a A16W16 model, 
quantize the activations to get A8W16 model, and then quantize the 

> weights to a 4 bit LUT, with INT16 dtype, this will yield an A8W4 model, 

Reviewer: typo? `INT16` -> `INT8`

> where “W4” refers to a palettized weights with 8 bit LUT. 

Reviewer: Might be better to make it more explicit because here the 8-bit and 4-bit could be confusing to new users. Maybe something like `“W4” refers to a palettized weights with a LUT that has 2**4 entries and each entry is INT8/UINT8.`?

Author: Good point, updated.

   OptimizationConfig,
   OpPalettizerConfig,
   OpLinearQuantizerConfig,
   palettize_weights,
   linear_quantize_weights,
 ) 
     
# mlmodel: an uncompressed mlpackage, loaded into memory 
                                                                          
# first palettize the model
# this will produce an LUT with Float values
op_config = OpPalettizerConfig(nbits=4)
config = OptimizationConfig(global_config=op_config)
mlmodel_palettized = palettize_weights(mlmodel, config)

# now apply weight quantization on the model, 
# with "joint_compression" set to True. 
# this will result in quantizing the LUT to 8 bits. 
# (granularity must be set to "per-tensor" for this scenario) 
op_config = OpLinearQuantizerConfig(mode="linear_symmetric",  
                                    granularity="per_tensor")
linear_weight_quantize_config = OptimizationConfig(global_config=op_config)

mlmodel_palettized_with_8bit_lut = linear_quantize_weights(mlmodel_palettized, 
                                                           linear_weight_quantize_config, 
                                                           joint_compression=True)
```

### Joint sparsity and quantization

> This means quantizing the non-zero values in the sparse weight tensor to INT8/UINT8 values. 

Reviewer: Technically could also be INT4/UINT4. Could we say "quantizing the non-zero values in the sparse weight tensor to lower-bit integer values."?

Reviewer 2: I think hardware only supports int8/uint8 currently?

Author: Hmm, I think INT4 may also work, but I have not tested it. For now, keeping it INT8 only.

> This could have benefit on inference speed, in addition to disk savings.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This could improve inference speed, in addition to disk savings.
```

Author: changed.

```python
import torchvision 
import torch
import coremltools as ct
from coremltools.optimize.torch.palettization import PostTrainingPalettizerConfig,\
                                                     PostTrainingPalettizer

# load a torch model
# e.g. resnet50 
model = torchvision.models.resnet50(weights="IMAGENET1K_V2")
model.eval()

# specify "lut_dtype" as torch.int8
# when not specified, it defaults to None and FP16 LUT is constructed 
config_dict = {"global_config": {"n_bits": 4, "lut_dtype" : torch.int8}}
palettizer_config = PostTrainingPalettizerConfig.from_dict(config_dict)

compressor = PostTrainingPalettizer(model, palettizer_config)
compressed_model = compressor.compress()   

# convert the compressed model
traced_model = torch.jit.trace(compressed_model, torch.rand(1, 3, 256, 256))

mlmodel = ct.convert(traced_model,
                     inputs=[ct.TensorType(shape=(1, 3, 256, 256))],
                     minimum_deployment_target=ct.target.macOS15,
                     )
mlmodel.save("model_4bit_palettized_with_8bit_quantized_lut.mlpackage")
```

### Joint sparsity and quantization

One way to combining sparsity and quantization is to 

> first quantize a torch model using the Magnitude pruner class, 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
first prune a torch model using the Magnitude pruner class, 
```

Author: Updated.

        quantization_scheme="symmetric",
        activation_dtype=torch.float,
    )
)
prune_config = MagnitudePrunerConfig(
    global_config=ModuleMagnitudePrunerConfig(
         target_sparsity=0.8,       
    )
)

# The quantizer config needs to be applied before the pruner config

quantizer = LinearQuantizer(model, quant_config)
quant_model = quantizer.prepare(example_inputs=[1, 3, 256, 256])

pruner = MagnitudePruner(quant_model, prune_config)
#  in-place is required to ensure quantizer and pruner are 
# operating on the same model 
pruned_quant_model = pruner.prepare(inplace=True)

n_classes = 1000
batch_size = 5
# run a couple of training iterations with random data
for i in range(2):
    # Dummy data
    inputs = torch.randn(batch_size, 3, 256, 256)  # Batch of samples
    targets = torch.randint(0, n_classes, (batch_size,))  # Target labels 
    
    # Forward pass
    logits = pruned_quant_model(inputs)
    out = torch.nn.LogSoftmax(dim=1)(logits)
    loss = torch.nn.functional.nll_loss(out, targets)
    print(loss)
    
    # Backward and optimize
    optimizer.zero_grad()
    loss.backward() 
    optimizer.step()
    quantizer.step()
    pruner.step()         
    

> # finalize the model for export

Reviewer 2: Should we mention that this ordering is required?

Author: Good point, added a comment.

quant_finalized_model = quantizer.finalize(inplace=True)

> finalized_model = pruner.finalize(quant_finalized_model, inplace=True)

Reviewer 2: `inplace=True` not needed here

                                                 PostTrainingPalettizerConfig, \
                                                 ModulePostTrainingPalettizerConfig                                               

# Apply pruning 

# Initialize model and optimizer
# e.g. Resnet50
model = torchvision.models.resnet50(weights="IMAGENET1K_V2")
model.train()
optimizer = torch.optim.SGD(model.parameters(), lr=0.01)

# Prepare model for pruning
prune_config = MagnitudePrunerConfig(
    global_config=ModuleMagnitudePrunerConfig(
         target_sparsity=0.8,       
    )
)

pruner = MagnitudePruner(model, prune_config)
pruned_model = pruner.prepare()

# run a couple of training iterations with random data
n_classes = 1000
batch_size = 5
for i in range(2):
    inputs = torch.randn(batch_size, 3, 256, 256)  # Batch of samples
    targets = torch.randint(0, n_classes, (batch_size,))  # Target labels 
    logits = pruned_model(inputs)
    out = torch.nn.LogSoftmax(dim=1)(logits)
    loss = torch.nn.functional.nll_loss(out, targets)
    optimizer.zero_grad()
    loss.backward() 
    optimizer.step()
    pruner.step()

# finalize model 

> finalized_model = pruner.finalize(pruned_model, inplace=True)

Reviewer 2: Nit: 
```suggestion
pruned_model = pruner.finalize(pruned_model, inplace=True)
```

Author: Updated.
